feat: Editorial review: Login Status API and friends (#31658)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/fedcm_api/rp_sign-in/index.md

If the user has never signed into the IdP or is logged out, the `get()` method rejects with an error and the RP can direct the user to the IdP login page to sign in or create an account.

> **Note:** The exact structure and content of the validation token token is opaque to the FedCM API, and to the browser. The IdP decides on the syntax and usage of it, and the RP needs to follow the instructions provided by the IdP (see [Verify the Google ID token on your server side](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/verify-google-id-token), for example) to make sure they are using it correctly.

A typical request might look like this:

```js
async function signIn() {
  const identityCredential = await navigator.credentials.get({
    identity: {
      context: "signup",
      providers: [
        {
          configURL: "https://accounts.idp.example/config.json",
          clientId: "********",
          nonce: "******",
          loginHint: "user1@example.com",
        },
      ],
    },
  });
}
```

> The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file (`configURL`) and the RP's client identifier (`clientId`) issued by the IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `identity.providers` property takes an array containing a single object specifying the path to an IdP config file (`configURL`) and the RP's client identifier (`clientId`) issued by the IdP.
```

Author: Good call; updated.

5. The IdP responds with the account information requested from the `accounts_endpoint`. This is an array of all accounts associated with the user's IdP cookies for any RPs associated with the IdP.

6. {{optional_inline}} If included in the IdP config file, the browser makes an uncredentialed request to the [`client_metadata_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_client_metadata_endpoint) for the location of the IdP terms of service and privacy policy pages. This is a `GET` request sent with the `clientId` passed into the `get()` call as a parameter, without cookies.

7. {{optional_inline}} The IdP responds with the URLs requested from the `client_metadata_endpoint`.

8. The browser uses the information obtained by the previous two requests to create the UI asking the user to choose an account to sign in to the RP with (in the case where there is more than one available). The UI also asks the user for permission to sign in to the RP using their chosen federated IdP account.

>    > **Note:** At this stage, if the user has previously authenticated with a federated RP account in the current browser instance (i.e. created a new account with the RP or signed into the RP's website using an existing account), they may be able to **auto-reauthenticate**, depending on what the [`mediation`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#mediation) option is set to in the `get()` call. If so the user will be signed in automatically without entering their credentials, as soon as `get()` is invoked. See the [Auto-reauthentication](#auto-reauthentication) section for more details.

Reviewer: I don't think this is quite right, as per https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31658/files#r1488622729

Essentially the doc you link indicates that reauthentication means "grant permission to login using the same account on IdP as you did previously, without prompting them". So there will never be re-entry of credentials. But instead of selecting the grant-permission you'll just connect.

There are two questions though.
1. What if auto-reauthentication is NOT allowed? My assumption here is that the UI will popup the connection UI and proceed as normal.
2. What if reauthentication IS granted? Will the browser still get a new token, or just use cached details? I presume the old token is used, but we should say.

I like the structure.

Author: I explained the NOT case previously. I've now added an explicit line to explain what happens when auto-reauthentication is successful:

> When these conditions are met, an attempt to automatically reauthenticate the user starts as soon as the `get()` is invoked. If auto-reauthentication is successful, the user will log into the RP site again, without being shown a confirmation prompt, using the same IdP account and validated token as they did before.

10. The IdP checks that the account ID sent by the RP matches the ID for the account that is already signed in, and that the `Origin` matches the origin of the RP, which will have been registered in advance with the IdP. If everything looks good, it responds with the requested validation token.

    > **Note:** The origin of the RP will be registered with the IdP in a completely separate process when the RP first integrates with the IdP. This process will be specific to each IdP.

11. When the flow is complete, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality. Most notably, this object contains a token that the RP can verify comes from the IdP (using a certificate) and that contains trusted information about the signed in user. Once the RP validates the token, they can use the contained information to sign the user in and start a new session, sign them up to their service, etc. The format and structure of the token depends on the IdP and has nothing to do with the FedCM API (the RP needs to follow the IdP's instructions).

## Auto-reauthentication

> FedCM auto-reauthentication lets users reauthenticate automatically when they try to sign into an RP again after their initial authentication using FedCM. "Initial authentication" refers to when the user creates an account or signs into the RP's website via the FedCM sign-in dialog for the first time on the RP site, on the same browser instance.

Reviewer: Perhaps worth being very clear about what reauthenticate means - not entering your password and login details.

```suggestion
FedCM auto-reauthentication lets users reauthenticate automatically (without entering their login credentials) when they try to sign into an RP again after their initial authentication using FedCM. "Initial authentication" refers to when the user creates an account or signs into the RP's website via the FedCM sign-in dialog for the first time on the RP site, on the same browser instance.
```

Reviewer: BUT, what happens if reauthentication does not occur?

Author: OK, to clarify, I have:

1. Added a bit more content to the second paragraph to make it more explicit what auto-reauthentication does: "After the initial authentication, auto-reauthentication can be used to sign into the RP website again automatically, without needing to show the user a "Continue as..." prompt or ask them to enter their credentials. The idea is that after the user has granted permission to allow communication between the RP and the IdP to allow federated sign-in to occur, there's no privacy or security benefit for enforcing another explicit user confirmation for something that they have already previously acknowledged."
2. Added a line to explain what happens when the auto-reauthentication fails: "If auto-reauthentication fails, the user _will_ be shown the dialog box and asked to enter their credentials again."

Reviewer: All this is excellent. I might have worded:

> "show the user a "Continue as..." confirmation prompt. I"

as

> show the user a "Continue as..." confirmation prompt where the user selects a user account.

But not enough to block this.

> The idea is that after the user has granted permission to allow communication between the RP and the IdP to allow federated sign-in to occur, there's no privacy or security benefit for enforcing another explicit user confirmation for something that they have already previously acknowledged.

Reviewer: Perhaps, allude to the 10 minute timeout
```suggestion
The idea is that after the user has granted permission to allow communication between the RP and the IdP to allow federated sign-in to occur, there's no privacy or security benefit for immediately enforcing another explicit user confirmation for something that they have already previously acknowledged.
```

Author: Yup, nice tightening up of the wording here. I've used most of this in the wording I showed in the previous comment.

Auto-reauthentication behavior is controlled by the [`mediation`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#mediation) option in the `get()` call:

```js
async function signIn() {
  const identityCredential = await navigator.credentials.get({
    identity: {
      providers: [
        {
          configURL: "https://accounts.idp.example/config.json",
          clientId: "********",
        },
      ],
    },
    mediation: "optional", // this is the default
  });

  // isAutoSelected is true if auto-reauthentication occurred.
  const isAutoSelected = identityCredential.isAutoSelected;
}
```

> Auto-reauthentication can occur if `mediation` is set to `optional`, which tends to make sense to use on an RP sign-in page, or `silent`, which makes sense on pages other than the dedicated sign-in page but where you want to keep users signed in — for example, the pages of a checkout flow on an e-commerce website.

Reviewer: I don't think the examples of when these "make sense" make sense. Remember that we're always keeping them signed in (as per https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31658/files#r1488627971), the question is whether we're signing them in using the same account automatically or requiring acceptance.

Author: Well, I've tried clarifying them a bit in the next commit. I've basically followed the google developer guide explanations. Those aren't hugely clear either, TBH.

If you still don't like these examples after the next round, I might just delete them ;-)

Reviewer: Your new way of wording this works really well - e.g. "make sense to use on a page where a user journey is not in mid-flow". It's clear now what happens in each case.

> With these `mediation` options, auto-reauthentication will occur under the following conditions:

Reviewer: I think it is JUST with optional you get this stuff?

Author: Nah, it's definitely with `optional` or `silent`, according to the google developer guide: https://developers.google.com/privacy-sandbox/3pcd/fedcm-developer-guide#auto-reauthn

Author: It is just that the behavior if it fails is different. I've explained those in the text.

Reviewer: Thanks, I get this now.

---
title: Relying party federated sign-in
slug: Web/API/FedCM_API/RP_sign-in
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("FedCM API")}}

> This article describes the process by which a relying party (RP) can use the Federated Credential Management (FedCM) API to perform a federated sign-in via an identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes the process by which a relying party (RP) can use the [Federated Credential Management (FedCM) API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) to perform a federated sign-in via an identity provider (IdP).
```

Author: Updated, in next commit.

## Calling the get() method

> RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an IdP. A typical request might look like this:

Reviewer: I'd like to see something like this here - i.e. "you call get(), and if it fulfills you are logged in". But it isn't clear from the text further down whether that is actually true, or what "validation" means, what a "validation token" is, and why I care.

But but anyway, even though it is early in doc, something like:

```suggestion
RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an IdP.
The method returns a promise that fulfills with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object if the user identity has been validated with identity provider (and can hence log into the RP service).

A typical request might look like this:
```

Author: OK, in the next commit, I have much improved this intro text, so that it provides a lot more context as to what you are actually doing.

> RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to make a request for users to sign in to the RP with an IdP, using the available [IdP config and endpoints](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#provide_a_config_file_and_endpoints). A typical request might look like this:

Reviewer: Consider using "sign-in". I keep seeing "sign in to" and thinking "sign into" 
```suggestion
RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to make a request for users to sign-in to the RP with an IdP, using the available [IdP config and endpoints](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#provide_a_config_file_and_endpoints). A typical request might look like this:
```

Author: 1. I've updated this to "option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an IdP"
2. I've removed this sentence altogether.
3. The aside: So basically, we are requesting that a user sign into an RP using an IdP. This is an IdP account that the user already has, and is already signed into. If the user is not signed in to the IdP, it won't work.

Reviewer: Better thanks. See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31658#issuecomment-1926161336

```js
async function signIn() {
  const identityCredential = await navigator.credentials.get({
    identity: {
      context: "signup",
      providers: [
        {
          configURL: "https://accounts.idp.example/config.json",
          clientId: "********",
          nonce: "******",
          loginHint: "user1@example.com",
        },
      ],
    },
  });
}
```

The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file and the RP's client identifier issued by the IdP; the example above also includes a couple of optional features:

- `identity.context` specifies the context in which the user is authenticating with FedCM. For example, is it a first-time signup for this account, or a sign-in with an existing account? The browser uses this information to vary the text in its FedCM UI to better suit the context.
- The IdP `nonce` property provides a random nonce value that ensures the response is issued for this specific request, preventing {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

> - The IdP `loginHint` property provides a hint about the account option(s) the browser should present for user sign-in. This hint is matched against the `login_hints` values that the IdP provides from the [accounts list endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint).

Reviewer: This list should include IMO `clientid` - specifically that it is RP id given by the IdP. It is used later so we need to know here.

Author: This is said before the bulleted list:

> The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file and the RP's client identifier issued by the IdP.

Author: I've updated it so that it is clearer what we are talking about here:

> The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file (`configURL`) and the RP's client identifier (`clientId`) issued by the IdP.

The browser requests the IdP config file and carries out the sign-in flow detailed below. For more information on the kind of interaction a user might expect from the browser-supplied UI, see [Sign in to the relying party with the identity provider](https://developers.google.com/privacy-sandbox/3pcd/fedcm#sign-in).

> ## FedCM sign-in flow

Reviewer: It might be useful to add a mermaid diagram here showing the flow. https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid-live-editor/

Author: Ummm, maybe. Wouldn't a standard client-server flow diagram be better? I could maybe nick the one from https://fedidcg.github.io/FedCM/#introduction

Reviewer: Yup - mermaid does those. But anyhow, if you're thieving, I mean something like this one from the spec:
![image](https://github.com/mdn/content/assets/5368500/f01d0155-50eb-4dcc-b856-e8ceded4d6bd)

1. The RP invokes {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} to start off the sign-in flow.

> 2. From the `configURL` provided in the `get()` call, the browser requests two files:

Reviewer: What if there are multiple providers listed? https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31658#issuecomment-1926161336

   1. The well-known file (`/.well-known/web-identity`), available from `/.well-known/web-identity` at the [eTLD+1](https://web.dev/articles/same-site-same-origin#site) of the `configURL`.
   2. The [IdP config file](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#provide_a_config_file_and_endpoints) (`/config.json`), available at the `configURL`.

   These are both [`GET`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET) requests, which don't have cookies and don't follow redirects. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning who made the request and which RP is attempting to connect.

   All requests sent from the browser via FedCM include a `{{httpheader("Sec-Fetch-Dest")}}: webidentity` header to prevent {{glossary("CSRF")}} attacks. All IdP endpoints must confirm this header is included.

> 3. The IdP responds with the requested files. The config file URL is validated against the list of valid config URLs inside the well-known file.

Reviewer: The RP validates the config URL against the list?

Author: It's the browser — the browser already has the well-known file, and compares the URL send back in this request with it. I've updated the last sentence here to

> The brower validates the config file URL against the list of valid config URLs inside the well-known file.

> 4. If the browser has the [IdP's login status](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#update_login_status_using_the_login_status_api) set to `"logged-in"`, it makes a credentialed request to the [`accounts_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint) inside the IdP config file for the list of accounts that the user is currently signed in to (if the login status is `"logged-out"`, the `get()` call silently fails). This is a `GET` request with cookies, but without a `client_id` parameter or the {{httpheader("Origin")}} header. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning which RP the user is trying to sign in to.

Reviewer: When you say "Credentialed request" you mean that the request is sent with whatever cookies the idp has set right? So in other words it is the id of the user as set by the server in some cookie? If there was no identity cookie already set then get would fail?

Author: Yeah, I'm pretty sure it is this. I've updated that part of the sentence to "...it makes a credentialed request (i.e. with a cookie containing the `clientId` that identifies the user) to the..."

If my previous question to the engineer results in an answer that contradicts this, I can always come back and change it.

> 4. If the browser has the [IdP's login status](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#update_login_status_using_the_login_status_api) set to `"logged-in"`, it makes a credentialed request to the [`accounts_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint) inside the IdP config file for the list of accounts that the user is currently signed in to (if the login status is `"logged-out"`, the `get()` call silently fails). This is a `GET` request with cookies, but without a `client_id` parameter or the {{httpheader("Origin")}} header. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning which RP the user is trying to sign in to.

Reviewer: > the `get()` call silently fails

How can it silently fail - you have a Promise on that call so if it fails it has to reject right? So what happens in this case? it isn't clear in this particular flow but I think I read in one of the other docs that if this happens or if they have no accounts then the RP should tell the user to go and log in. I think at that point it has the login endpoint from the config so it can probably tell them to do that, then come back and try log in again? I think this part of the flow could do with some expanding.

Author: Apparently, it does silently fail, without ever sending a request to the accounts list endpoint. This is exactly what it says in Google's official docs. I've expanded the information here by putting that stuff in a separate note so it stands out:

> **Note:** If the login status is `"logged-out"`, the `get()` call silently fails without making a request to the IdP's accounts list endpoint. In such a case it is up to the developer to handle the flow, for example by prompting the user to go and sign in to a suitable IdP.

I'll also ask the engineer what "silently fails" means exactly.

Author: OK, I've got info. So, it rejects with a `NetworkError` exception, with a delayed rejection to mitigate leaking the IdP login status to the RP. I've updated the relevant pages to include this info. No more confusing "silent" mentions!

5. The IdP responds with the account information.

6. {{optional_inline}} If included in the IdP config file, the browser makes an uncredentialed request to the [`client_metadata_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_client_metadata_endpoint) for the location of the IdP terms of service and privacy policy pages. This is a `GET` request sent with the `clientId` passed into the `get()` call as a parameter, without cookies.

> 7. {{optional_inline}} The IdP responds with the requested URLs.

Reviewer: Is this "6b"? I.e. is it a response to the request 6? Maybe make these both "6" with sub points for the request and response.

Reviewer: OK, then how about
```suggestion
7. {{optional_inline}} The IdP responds with the URLs requested from the `client_metadata_endpoint`.
```

Author: Good call; updated in next commit

8. The browser uses the information obtained by the previous two requests to create the UI asking the user for permission to sign in to the RP using their federated IdP account.

9. If the user grants permission to do so, the browser makes a credentialed request to the [`id_assertion_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) to request a validation token from the IdP.

>    The credentials are sent in an HTTP [`POST`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) request with cookies and a content type of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.

Reviewer: So at this point (8) the browser has got back the accounts associated with the user from the idp, based on the cookie sent by the browser. It creates a UI showing the accounts that are available - say Fb and google - and allows the user to select one. The user selects one, and the browser asks for a validation token from the IdP for that particular account.

Then we do something with the token to validate the user (TBD).

Author: The IdP is chosen when `get()` is invoked — it's the `configURL` included inside `identity.providers`. You also choose the RP that wants to sign someone in at this stage (that's the `clientId`).

It is still perfectly possible that you may have multiple IdP accounts to choose from to sign into the RP. Think of when you want to sign in to a game on android, and it gives you the options - sign in using FB, sign in using Google, etc. Then you choose sign in using google and it says "which one of these google accounts do you want to sign in with?"

   If the call fails, an error payload is returned as explained in [The ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint).

10. The IdP checks that the account ID sent by the RP matches the ID for the account that is already signed in, and that the `Origin` matches the origin of the RP, which will have been registered in advance with the IdP. If everything looks good, it responds with the validation token.

> **Note:** The origin of the RP will be registered with the IdP in a completely separate process when the RP first integrates with the IdP. This process will be specific to each IdP.

> When the flow is complete, the RP validates the validation token. If validation is successful, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality. Additionally, at this point the RP may register the user or let them sign in and start a new session.

Reviewer: 1. > "If validation is successful, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object."

   I "think" that you're meaning validation to refer to the process in step 10, but that is very confusing when you talk about the validation token is validated in the  same paragraph.

2.  I still don't know how the RP does validation of the token. 

3. "{{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality." - what for?

4. > Additionally, at this point the RP may register the user or let them sign in and start a new session.

   I would remove "Additionally" and make this "not a list item". I'.e. make it a note that the flow is over.

Author: Ack, yes, this bit was a bit confused. I updated the last paragraph to:

> When the flow is complete, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality. Most notably, this object contains a token that the RP can then send to its server to validate the user on their service. Once the RP validates the user, they can sign them in and start a new session, sign them up to their service, etc. The nature of this validation is decided on by the IdP and has nothing to do with the FedCM API. The RP needs to follow the IdP's instructions.

## Features available via IdentityCredential

> The {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object obtained from a successful FedCM sign-in provides access to the token used to validate the sign-in (see {{domxref("IdentityCredential.token")}}) and an indication of whether the federated sign-in was carried out using automatic reauthentication, i.e. without user mediation (see {{domxref("IdentityCredential.isAutoSelected")}}).

Reviewer: The whole user mediation thing is confusing. Say that [`mediation=required`](https://pr31658.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#mediation) so the user is forced to log in every time. What's the flow then?

Author: So, the user is always logged into the IdP being used for identity federation, as signified by the Login Status API mentioned earlier. If the Login Status APIs says the user is logged out, the `get()` call silently fails.

AIUI, the mediation controls whether the user is asked to re-enter their details when they choose an account to sign in with, or they just select the account and it signs in.

Reviewer: > AIUI, the mediation controls whether the user is asked to re-enter their details when they choose an account to sign in with, or they just select the account and it signs in.

Yes but HOW - there is no information about how the IdP can know you want to log in again, or how the browser goes about presenting the such a UI. Or if you perhaps switch out of the RP context to the IdP or what.

All I can tell is that I have a user logged in or `get()` would have failed. If I specified `required` or `optional` for mediation the user has to log in again. But there is nothing here in my identity end point that says "hey, I want to relogin - throw up a screen please".

Reviewer: I could reword my note above as "there is no information about how the browser/idp interaction works with respect to the user having to reenter credentials." - I'll check your update.

Reviewer: >    > **Note:** At this stage, if the `get()` request was made and user mediation is required (for example the [`mediation`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#mediation) option is set to `required`), _the user will be asked to enter their sign in details._ If user mediation is not required (for example the `mediation` option is set to `optional` and the browser determines that mediation is not required), the user will be signed in automatically without entering their credentials.

So 

> the user will be asked to enter their sign in details

How exactly does this happen.

Reviewer: Same question as in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31658/files#r1486865875

Author: OK, I've done some more digging in the Google docs, and found this bit which I'd never seen before: https://developers.google.com/privacy-sandbox/3pcd/fedcm-developer-guide#auto-reauthn

So mediation only affects auto-reauthentication after the initial authentication (which always requires credentials to be entered). This makes a bit more sense. I'd imagine the browser would store the user's credentials for use in authentication after the first successful authentication (although it doesn't explicitly state this anywhere). I'll update the docs to explain this all.

Author: Hrm, I think I had seen that section before, but since forgotten about it, hence the note on this page being so confusion. I have added a brand new section about auto-reauthentication to this page, updated this note, and linked to the new section form appropriate places. I hope this helps clear things up.

---
title: Relying party federated sign-in
slug: Web/API/FedCM_API/RP_sign-in
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("FedCM API")}}

This article describes the process by which a relying party (RP) can use the [Federated Credential Management (FedCM) API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) to perform a federated sign-in via an identity provider (IdP).

## Calling the get() method

> RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an existing IdP account that they are already signed in to on the device. The user to sign in is identified by their `clientId`, issued by the IdP to the RP in a separate process that is specific to the IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RPs can call {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an existing IdP account that they are already signed in to on the device. The RP to sign in is identified by their `clientId`, issued by the IdP to the RP in a separate process that is specific to the IdP.
```

Author: Your wording is better here; updated

> The method returns a promise that fulfills with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object if the user identity is successfully validated by the IdP. This object contains a token that the RP can then send to its server to validate the user on their service. Once the RP validates the user, they can sign them in, sign them up to their service, etc.
> 
> > **Note:** The exact nature of the token is opaque to the FedCM API, and to browser. The IdP decides on the syntax and usage of it, and the RP needs to follow the instructions provided by the IdP (see the [Google Sign In instructions](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/fedcm-migration), for example) to make sure they are using it correctly.

Reviewer: This is the bit that was confusing me originally - it wasn't clear what the token and API actually did for you. Now even though the format of the token is going to be IdP specific, the "value" is now clear. It's digitally signed identity information, which the RP can use because it is trusted. 

We can make that clear early :-)

```suggestion
The method returns a promise that fulfills with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object if the user identity is successfully validated by the IdP. This object contains a token that includes user identity information that has been signed with the IdP's {{glossary("digital certificate")}}.
The RP sends the token to its server to validate the certificate, and on success can use the (now trusted) identity information in the token to sign them into, or up to, their service, etc.

If the user has never signed into the IdP or is logged out, the `get()` method rejects with an error and the RP can direct the user the IdP login page to sign-in or create an account.

> **Note:** The exact structure and content of the validation token token is opaque to the FedCM API, and to browser. The IdP decides on the syntax and usage of it, and the RP needs to follow the instructions provided by the IdP (see the [Google Sign In instructions](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/fedcm-migration), for example) to make sure they are using it correctly.
```

Author: Yup, this largely sounds good. I've basically used your wording, with a few tweaks.

A typical request might look like this:

```js
async function signIn() {
  const identityCredential = await navigator.credentials.get({
    identity: {
      context: "signup",
      providers: [
        {
          configURL: "https://accounts.idp.example/config.json",
          clientId: "********",
          nonce: "******",
          loginHint: "user1@example.com",
        },
      ],
    },
  });
}
```

The `identity.providers` property takes an array of objects containing the path to an IdP config file (`configURL`) and the RP's client identifier (`clientId`) issued by the IdP.

> > **Note:** Currently FedCM only allows the API to be invoked with a single IdP, i.e. the `identity.providers` array has to have a length of 1. Multiple IdPs must be supported via different `get()` calls. This may change in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Currently FedCM only allows the API to be invoked with a single IdP, i.e. the `identity.providers` array has to have a length of 1. 
> To offer users a choice of identity provider, the RP will need to call `get()` separately for each.
> This may change in the future.
```

The example above also includes a couple of optional features:

- `identity.context` specifies the context in which the user is authenticating with FedCM. For example, is it a first-time signup for this account, or a sign-in with an existing account? The browser uses this information to vary the text in its FedCM UI to better suit the context.

> - The IdP `nonce` property provides a random nonce value that ensures the response is issued for this specific request, preventing {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

Reviewer: It's an RP nonce right?
```suggestion
- The `nonce` property provides a random nonce value that ensures the response is issued for this specific request, preventing {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.
```

Author: Bah, yeah, you're right. Same with `loginHint`. Updated.

- The IdP `loginHint` property provides a hint about the account option(s) the browser should present for user sign-in. This hint is matched against the `login_hints` values that the IdP provides from the [accounts list endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint).

The browser requests the IdP config file and carries out the sign-in flow detailed below. For more information on the kind of interaction a user might expect from the browser-supplied UI, see [Sign in to the relying party with the identity provider](https://developers.google.com/privacy-sandbox/3pcd/fedcm#sign-in).

## FedCM sign-in flow

> 

Reviewer: It's obvious perhaps from the diagram above, but not from the words below that there are three parties to the flow - RP, browser, IdP. I think it is worth telegraphing that up front - i.e. that making it clear what the parties are, and that the browser generates a UI for selecting the account to use, and so on.

Author: I have added a line, plus a doctored version of the google sign in flow diagram.

Reviewer: It is a thing of beauty.

1. The RP invokes {{domxref("CredentialsContainer.get", "navigator.credentials.get()")}} to start off the sign-in flow.

2. From the `configURL` provided in the `get()` call, the browser requests two files:

   1. The well-known file (`/.well-known/web-identity`), available from `/.well-known/web-identity` at the [eTLD+1](https://web.dev/articles/same-site-same-origin#site) of the `configURL`.
   2. The [IdP config file](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#provide_a_config_file_and_endpoints) (`/config.json`), available at the `configURL`.

   These are both [`GET`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET) requests, which don't have cookies and don't follow redirects. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning who made the request and which RP is attempting to connect.

>    All requests sent from the browser via FedCM include a `{{httpheader("Sec-Fetch-Dest")}}: webidentity` header to prevent {{glossary("CSRF")}} attacks. All IdP endpoints must confirm this header is included.

Reviewer: Didn't know  you could put fences around a macro - I thought that forced no rendering!

Author: Hrm, I didn't do this intentionally ;-)

> 3. The IdP responds with the requested files. The brower validates the config file URL against the list of valid config URLs inside the well-known file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The IdP responds with the requested files. The browser validates the config file URL against the list of valid config URLs inside the well-known file.
```

Author: updated!

4. If the browser has the [IdP's login status](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#update_login_status_using_the_login_status_api) set to `"logged-in"`, it makes a credentialed request (i.e. with a cookie that identifies the user that is signed in) to the [`accounts_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint) inside the IdP config file for the user's account details. This is a `GET` request with cookies, but without a `client_id` parameter or the {{httpheader("Origin")}} header. This effectively prevents the IdP from learning which RP the user is trying to sign in to. As a result, the list of accounts returned is RP-agnostic.

>    > **Note:** If the IdP login status is `"logged-out"`, the `get()` call fails without making a request to the IdP's accounts list endpoint. In such a case it is up to the developer to handle the flow, for example by prompting the user to go and sign in to a suitable IdP. Note that in such cases the `get()` call rejects with a `NetworkError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}; there may be some delay in the rejection to avoid leaking the IdP login status to the RP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **Note:** If the IdP login status is `"logged-out"`, the `get()` call rejects with a `NetworkError` {{domxref("DOMException")} and does not make a request to the IdP's accounts list endpoint. In this case it is up to the developer to handle the flow, for example by prompting the user to go and sign-in to a suitable IdP. Note that there may be some delay in the rejection to avoid leaking the IdP login status to the RP.
```

Author: Tightened up, good call! I used this, mostly.

> 5. The IdP responds with the account information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The IdP responds with the account information.
   This is an array of all accounts associated with the user's IdP cookies for any RPs associated with the IdP.
```

Author: updated

6. {{optional_inline}} If included in the IdP config file, the browser makes an uncredentialed request to the [`client_metadata_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_client_metadata_endpoint) for the location of the IdP terms of service and privacy policy pages. This is a `GET` request sent with the `clientId` passed into the `get()` call as a parameter, without cookies.

7. {{optional_inline}} The IdP responds with the requested URLs.

8. The browser uses the information obtained by the previous two requests to create the UI asking the user to choose an account to sign in to the RP with (in the case where there is more than one available). The UI also asks the user for permission to sign in to the RP using their chosen federated IdP account.

> 9. If the user grants permission to do so, the browser makes a credentialed request to the [`id_assertion_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) to request a validation token from the IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. If the user grants permission to do so, the browser makes a credentialed request to the [`id_assertion_endpoint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) to request a validation token from the IdP for the selected account.
```

Author: updated

   The credentials are sent in an HTTP [`POST`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) request with cookies and a content type of `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`.

>    If the call fails, an error payload is returned as explained in [The ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the call fails, an error payload is returned as explained in [The ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) and the promise returned by `get()` will reject with the error.
```

Author: updated

10. The IdP checks that the account ID sent by the RP matches the ID for the account that is already signed in, and that the `Origin` matches the origin of the RP, which will have been registered in advance with the IdP. If everything looks good, it responds with a validation token.

> **Note:** The origin of the RP will be registered with the IdP in a completely separate process when the RP first integrates with the IdP. This process will be specific to each IdP.

> When the flow is complete, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality. Most notably, this object contains a token that the RP can then send to its server to validate the user on their service. Once the RP validates the user, they can sign them in and start a new session, sign them up to their service, etc. The nature of this validation is decided on by the IdP and has nothing to do with the FedCM API. The RP needs to follow the IdP's instructions.

Reviewer: Again "nature of validation" is a bit strong. The nature has to be the same - it's a digitally signed token that contains identity information. The content/format/syntax can change and the signature used. Maybe ... (or link up above to where I said something similar)

```suggestion
When the flow is complete, the `get()` promise resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} object, which provides further RP functionality. Most notably, this object contains a token that the RP can verify comes from the IdP (using a certificate) and that contains trusted information about the signed in user. Once the RP validates the token, they can use the contained information to sign the user in and start a new session, sign them up to their service, etc. The format and structure of the token depends on the IdP and has nothing to do with the FedCM API (the RP needs to follow the IdP's instructions).
```

Author: Sounds good - thanks! Used.
